# Information Analytics Project
## 2016

**PROJECT**

The project that we will all work on, as a group, will contribute to the following EU project which is based in the Amsterdam School for Heritage, Memory and Material Culture:

*  *European Training Network Critical Heritage Studies and the Future of Europe_Towards an integrated, interdisciplinary and transnational training model in cultural heritage research and management (CHEurope)*
*  Theme 5 ‘Heritage management and citizen participation in a multi-cultural world’.

**Project Description**

The “CHEurope” project is a PhD training program in critical heritage studies supported by the EU under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie actions (MSCA) - Innovative Training Networks (ITN). It is the result of a collaboration between universities, heritage institutions and museums in Sweden, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Belgium and Italy (for more information on the project and its themes, see http://criticalheritagestudies.gu.se/cooperation/cheurope).

CHEurope will train 15 Early Stage Researchers (ESR) under five themes: Heritage Futures, Curating the City, Digital Heritage, Heritage and Wellbeing, and Management and Citizen Participation. Starting in April 2017, the recruited ESRs shall be appointed with an employment contract of 36 months duration and be offered the basic living allowance plus mobility and family allowance (if applicable) according to the Marie-Sklodowska-Curie Horizon2020 criteria. The recruited ESRs will benefit from secondments in museums and heritage institutions, and from taking active part in a structured, international program of training workshops, summer schools, and conferences. 

As part of CHEurope’s theme ‘Heritage Management and Citizen Participation’, the Amsterdam School for Heritage, Memory and Material Culture (AHM) will lead the Work Package, *Counter-heritage’: critical management approaches to heritage access*. This project will focus on the idea of ‘participation’ and analyse management practices at several heritage sites and museums that aim to promote a new kind of heritage, one more inclusive of pasts and cultural practices traditionally excluded from public representation. The ESR will be seconded in two Amsterdam institutions, and, while the PhD does not have to focus on Amsterdam, it is recommended that applicants propose projects which include these collaborations as structural component and make the best of them. Building on several collaborations, the aim of this project is to examine the dilemmas, contradictions and conflicts that are faced by those experts who want to change heritage from within by doing participation. How much ‘participation’ is allowed within the current heritage regime? How do traditional understandings of expertise change with the growing involvement of the public and other value systems in heritage? How does funding play a role in these processes? The study will adopt a multidisciplinary methodology combining anthropological and sociological approaches with heritage studies.

**THE GOAL OF OUT PROJECT:**

Using a method of term dictionary generation, developed by Alan Berg (more on this later) we will apply statistical techniques to generate a "dictionary" of key terms found in heritage articles over the past 20 years. 

1. Using this approach we will monitor the flow of new concepts into journal articles about heritage and test to what degree critical heritage terms exist in the literature. 
1. We will also test, through the autogeneration of terms, what the key signifiers are for the discipline, over time.

**Autogenerated dictionary**

* How do we automatically discover key terms that characterise heritage? 
* Are the boundaries to the usage of the terms within and without heritage journals concrete or fuzzy?
* Do the terms relative importance change significantly over time?
* Are the terms indicative of a critical approach to heritage or represent concepts from other domains that coexist?
* Is there a need for human rankers in removing non related terms?

**Method:**

* We will filter out the top 500 words from a frequency list from a significantly sized corpus of heritage journal articles.
* Automatically removing stop words or general academic terminology by deleting words frequent to another general purpose corpus.
* We will then limit our dictionary to the top 30 words left.
* We will then review  different dictionaries generated by period of time and visualize and interpret the story behind the dictionaries and their evolution.


**The values of this methodology are:**

1. KISS approach.
1. An alternative approach to the creation of Dictionaries traditionally developed by annotating text.
1. Has the same intent as td idf.
1. Has the advantage of agility E.G.: Can take into account changes through time and easy to program.